[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
I think you're
going to be fascinated
by this conversation.
Klaire D. Roy is a medium for
a being who identifies himself
as Djwhal Khul, a nom de plume.
In previous times, he used
Alice Bailey as his scribe.
In her new book,
"Circle of Initiates,"
Khul explains the levels of
initiation of public figures
from both the
present and the past.
It is done to help
the reader understand
how these rays of consciousness
express themselves
in the world.
As we talk about a little
later, not to judge one another.
And you'll see there's a third
person with us, who is Josee.
Jhozay" or "Jhozee?"
>>JOSEE DI SARIO: Jhozay."
>>REGINA: "Jhozay."
And you are the editor
of "Circle of Initiates,"
and you're also a translator.
And this is because
Klaire is French Canadian.
And she speaks
English quite well,
but sometimes gets
a little nervous.
So if she's
struggling for a word,
then Josee will be able
to fill in really quickly.
So the first thing
I want to know--
and I think everybody
will want to know-- is, A,
how you became a medium for--
he's known as "The Tibetan"--
for The Tibetan to begin with.
>>KLAIRE D. ROY: So one night
I was in a state of meditation.
I was in my 20s,
a long time ago.
And I saw a man in front of me.
He appears in front of me.
And he told me that
I have to change
some way of my meditation,
the way I meditate.
And I say, oh.
And he told me that I have
to be more concentrate,
and he gave me some
advice about my life.
And I say OK.
And for the first time, it's the
only thing that he said to me.
And I did not know who
he was, but he came back
in my meditation-- regularly?
>>REGINA: Regularly.
>>ROY: During many years.
And I did not know
who he was, really.
And one day, I read a book
written by Alice Bailey.
And it's a book from the
Tibetan master Djwhal Khul,
and I was very
fascinating about what
he transmit in the teaching--
he transmitted in the books.
A month later, he revealed
that he is The Tibetan.
And I don't believe him,
because I'm a very, very--
septical?
>>REGINA: Skeptical woman, yes.
>>ROY: Skeptical woman.
And I told him, I
said, it's impossible.
Sorry, I have to slow down my--
and finally, he asked
me to work for him.
And I say, oh, no.
I don't want because I lack
of confidence in me and--
>>REGINA: You don't
have enough confidence.
>>ROY: Enough confidence
in me to do that.
>>REGINA: Did he say why
he chose you to do this?
>>ROY: Yes.
He explained to me
because the first thing
he told me that I was a
disciple-- one of disciple
in many life, in my past life.
OK.
And he told me that I
have a ray one mental.
>>REGINA: A what?
>>ROY: A ray one, the ray that
influenced my mental body.
>>REGINA: What?
>>JOSEE DI SARIO: Mental.
>>ROY: Mental body.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ROY: Is a ray one.
And it's a very--
>>REGINA: What is a "rewan"?
>>ROY: A ray one, it's
explained in the book.
The ray one is a ray of energy.
>>REGINA: Oh, ray.
Yes, ray.
Ray.
Gotcha.
Ray one.
>>ROY: Ray one.
>>REGINA: Yes, got you.
>>ROY: Thank you.
>>REGINA: The first ray.
>>ROY: Yeah.
The first ray.
OK.
And it's very essential
to do the work
he want me to do
for him because it's
a ray that very concentrate.
And it can't hold
on high energy--
>>REGINA: High energy, yeah.
>>ROY: Yeah.
This ray.
And I said OK.
And he told me that I
have the level initiation
enough to do this with him.
But I refuse again.
He ask me twice and I refuse.
And finally, the third
time he said, just try.
And will just transmit to you
a little text, and we will see.
And finally, I accept.
And I write for
him a little text.
And it begin like this.
It's OK?
>>REGINA: It's OK.
We understand you perfectly.
Your English is
actually very good.
>>ROY: Thank you.
>>REGINA: But I
understand you're
a stubborn woman, apparently.
>>ROY: Yes.
Yes, I am.
>>REGINA: And a skeptical woman.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So this was a
little bit for you to take on.
Were you initially a little
self-conscious about it?
Did you keep it to yourself?
>>ROY: Yes.
Yes.
A long, long time I keep
it for me because I thought
that people think I was a fool.
Yes.
And I take-- finally I met a
man who is my teacher, my--
how can I say, physical teacher?
>>DI SARIO: Mhm.
>>ROY: And I began
to talk about what
I'm experience in my
meditation with this master.
And he told me, I think it's
the real one, and you have to--
>>REGINA: Step up.
>>ROY: Yes, and
to work with him.
And I say OK.
And after, when
I begin to write,
Josee was [INAUDIBLE] my editor?
[SPEAKING FRENCH] And she look
at what she gave it to her.
And it's hey, it's not the
way you write habitually.
Because it's like
an English person
who try to write in
French, because it
talk to me in French.
And you did a little
mistake in French language.
Now it's better.
>>REGINA: But it
indicated the authenticity
of the experience also, right?
These little mistakes made
it even more authentic
that this person
was speaking to you.
>>ROY: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I bring this up for a
reason, because many people--
you know, I just have a
particular question about it,
bug about it.
Many people say
they're channeling,
but they're not
actually channeling.
And many people confuse
mediumship with channeling.
And so from your point
of view, you're a medium.
Explain the difference
between the two so
people understand
that to begin with.
>>ROY: OK.
A channel is a person that
channels another entity or--
I don't-- But to do that,
they have to get out of--
>>REGINA: Step aside.
>>ROY: Step aside.
And often they don't remember
what the entity said, OK?
But imagine, like me, I can see.
I hear what he said.
And sometime, like I said,
I can't argue with him.
>>REGINA: Argue.
>>ROY: Yes, because
I'm stubborn.
And sometime I want to
understand more what he said.
And he is very patient.
>>REGINA: Patient.
>>ROY: Patient.
And he explain the thing
of many ways for me
to be able to understand
what he want to transmit.
And when you're a channel, you
are not able, no, to do that.
>>REGINA: No, you're removed.
>>ROY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
Thank you for explaining
that just so we're
clear on what's going on here.
And so the relationship began.
And I want to take this back
historically a little bit.
He also spoke through
Alice Bailey, right?
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And it seems that
he comes through someone
at a period of history when
a certain type of lesson
or message needs to be
relayed to humanity.
And in those days, did
he ever talk to you
about what really was
needed in those times,
in coming through Alice Bailey,
for example, in those days?
>>ROY: Yes.
What he transmit to Alice
Bailey, it was very precious.
It's talk about--
>>REGINA: Precious.
>>ROY: Precious.
And he explained
a lot of things.
We said occulting--
>>REGINA: Occult.
>>ROY: Does it mean "hidden"?
>>REGINA: Mhm.
>>ROY: And he explained
a lot of things
that people want to know.
But now he think that people
are ready to integrate what
he teach in this previous book.
>>REGINA: What you were
teaching in the previous book.
>>ROY: And now he
wants to be more
practical with his
teaching because he
think that people are ready
to experiment what he said.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROY: It's OK?
>>REGINA: I understand
what you're saying.
He's saying in
times past, he was
helping, through
Alice Bailey, people
explore the occult or the hidden
realities that underlie life,
because there was a
great curiosity of that
in those days.
Metaphysics was
being given birth to
in that era in a new way.
And today he's saying
we need practical advice
to begin working and
experimenting with, right?
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right so far?
>>REGINA: OK.
And so--
>>ROY: Before it was just
like giving information
and people want just to know.
But now, people want
to practice, integrate.
To do.
>>REGINA: To do.
And so how did the idea of
this particular book, "Circle
of Initiates," come about?
Why did he decide to
pass this understanding
of the rays of initiation
through in terms
of public figures?
>>ROY: To help us
to understand what
is the influence of the ray.
I pronounce correctly?
>>REGINA: The ray.
>>ROY: The rays.
And he gave with this
initiates information
that it's easy to
us to recognize.
And with this example,
we understand why
this person act a certain way.
>>REGINA: The way they do.
>>ROY: The way they do.
And when we read about
a certain initiate,
we can understand
who we are more.
>>REGINA: We can recognize those
characteristics in ourselves
and the people around us.
So it's-- because someone's
public, you're public.
It's up for review.
Your life does become public.
And he's saying, let's
take advantage of that
and look at it so that
we can all see ourselves
in these various people--
>>ROY: Yes.
You can recognize, yes.
>>REGINA: --and understand
our world better.
Because some of it is
not what we would expect.
Some people, you know,
you look through the book
and you think, OK, I've
got to get to this page.
Who was-- oh, well, you know
who we're starting out with--
Donald Trump, of course.
[LAUGHTER]
We're here in America.
>>ROY: Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: But OK,
even Michelangelo,
let's see what Michelangelo
came out as on this scale.
And it's an overall
number that's given from--
I think the top person the book
was something like 4.7, or 4.8.
>>ROY: A little bit more.
I have two that
reach almost a 7.
But--
>>REGINA: Who were they, again?
Do you remember off hand?
I don't remember.
But anyway, most
of the people were
falling in between 5 and 1.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Except for a couple
very extraordinary people,
and I'm sorry I can't
remember, either.
>>ROY: Well, most
of the people are
prepared to do their
first initiation.
And I just want to
specify something.
It's not the personality
will be initiated.
It's the soul.
>>REGINA: The soul.
And this is really important.
>>ROY: It's different.
Yes, it's important.
And the soul is here to
experiment a lot of things.
The soul likes to experiment.
And we have--
I believe that we have
many lives to experience.
>>REGINA: Yes, to experiment.
To grow, to continue
to refine ourselves.
So there is no
judgment in these?
He's not-- this being
is not judging anything.
They're simply saying,
these are the factors.
These are kind of
the numeric values
on these different
parts of their lives
that are influencing them.
>>ROY: But in the book--
I just want to say something.
In the book, the majority of
the book, it's about initiates.
But at the end, we
explain what is the rays,
the function of the rays.
>>REGINA: So before we get
into the actual calibrations
of the initiates--
and we're really not going into
great detail in any of them--
we're going into just
the primary thing that
influences them, for good or for
worse, and a baseline number.
So people can get--
even though it's not supposed
to be about comparisons--
you can get a
comparative understanding
of the level of development.
OK, that's maybe a
better way to say it.
So first tell us about
rays one through seven.
Tell us about the
value of each ray.
>>ROY: OK.
The Tibetan master
explained in the book
written by Alice
Bailey that there
are seven rays that
influence all the kingdom who
are in this Earth.
And we have five bodies--
human kind have five bodies--
physical bodies, astral
bodies, mental bodies--
>>REGINA: Mental body.
>>ROY: Mental.
>>REGINA: Mental.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's it.
>>ROY: Sorry.
Thank you.
Mental body.
Personality, the soul.
And we have the Monad.
But the Monad is so far
up from us that we don't--
>>REGINA: We're not
consciously aware of that.
>>ROY: No.
OK.
And each of our bodies
is influenced by a ray--
a ray that influences our soul.
And it's the only
one that didn't--
don't change.
>>REGINA: Doesn't change.
>>ROY: Doesn't change
with our incarnation.
It's the one that we keep during
all our incarnations on Earth.
>>REGINA: So if
there are seven rays,
maybe you're influenced
by the first,
or I'm influenced by
the second, or you're
influenced by the seventh.
Is it like that?
>>ROY: The soul chooses a ray
that you will be influenced.
>>REGINA: The primary influence.
>>ROY: During all its
incarnations on Earth.
But it choose other
four rays to experiment
because you want to know--
the soul wants to know what is
the influence of all the rays.
And to do that, soul is feminine
or the soul has to experiment
with all the rays--
the influence of the rays.
So you have the ray
one, and the ray one
is the will and the power.
So a person who has this ray
in his configuration of rays
will experiment will and power.
>>REGINA: And
you're at that ray.
You said you--
>>ROY: In my mental,
yes, I have this.
You have the ray two,
who is love and wisdom.
So I have a ray two
in my personality.
So the ray two is
very sensitive.
It likes to work with people.
The ray three is adaptability
and active intelligence.
So this kind of people want
to experiment a lot of things
and they want to
understand a lot of things.
The ray four is for the artist.
It's beauty and it's conflict--
no.
Harmony through conflict?
>>DI SARIO: Right.
>>REGINA: How do
you say it again?
>>DI SARIO: Harmony
through conflict.
>>REGINA: Harmony
>>ROY: Yes.
Often when you have a ray four,
you will live up and down.
But it's very [STAMMERING].
>>REGINA: Artistic.
>>ROY: Artistic?
OK.
The ray five is the ray of
intelligence, scientific.
So this kind of
people are very--
>>DI SARIO: Drawn to.
>>ROY: Concerned about science.
They want the proof
of everything.
They want to-- OK?
>>REGINA: I understand.
>>ROY: And you have the ray six.
The ray six is the
idealist and devotion.
>>REGINA: Idealism,
mhm, and devotion.
>>ROY: And devotion.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROY: And the ray seven
is the ceremonial order
and the magic aspect.
>>REGINA: OK.
OK.
>>ROY: So this is
the seven rays.
In the book, we
explain at the end
what is the influence
of the ray on each body.
>>REGINA: Yes, and that's good.
That glossary's
in the background
because it just
fleshes out our--
>>ROY: So they help
us to recognize us
in the way we are in
the relationship we
have with others, OK?
>>REGINA: Relationship
with others.
>>ROY: Yes, like if
you put something--
I can give an example?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROY: If you put in a team
a ray one with a ray two,
it was difficult for the ray
two to work with the ray one.
Because a ray one is
power and is the will.
And it doesn't matter what
the feeling of the others.
He just wants to
do what he wants
to do, and to go to the goal.
But for the person with a
ray two, very sensitive,
who like the relationship with
your nurse is very difficult
because often it
will be 'blesser'?
Hurt by the action
of the ray one.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we see this not only
among families and friends
and people at
large in countries,
but these are also
existing within ourselves,
where we have these
competing factions to come
into this understanding, right?
>>ROY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So we have
internal conflict or harmony
through conflict.
>>ROY: Yeah.
And sometimes it's the game
of the rays inside of us.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That makes sense.
>>REGINA: Very good.
>>ROY: So in various
circumstances,
we are focused on
our astral body,
so we are influenced with--
for example, if I have a
ray six in my astral body,
I will very warm, but very
possessive and jealous.
>>REGINA: Very
>>ROY: And jealous, maybe
if I have the negative.
Because each ray have
a positive aspect--
>>REGINA: And a negative.
>>ROY: And negative aspect.
I give an example in the book
that if I went to a party
and I saw my lover with a
beautiful woman, I can become--
>>REGINA: You can become
jealous and possessive
if you have the ray six
in your astral body.
So all of these things
contribute to the whole
of our expression in the world.
>>ROY: Yes.
OK.
>>REGINA: OK.
By the way, your English
is doing really well.
You're doing very well.
>>ROY: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Very, very well.
>>ROY: OK, thank you.
I just want to--
in the book we put
the initiation level,
but we don't explain it.
We're going to do
this in the next book
because we don't want that
people be too concerned
about initiation level.
We have to know
before our rays--
the influence of our
rays in our life.
And after, we can
go and experiment
with initiation level.
It's OK?
>>REGINA: Yes, I understand
what you're saying.
Yeah, because it is.
You give kind of a
numeric, a number.
And then there are
personality traits and such
that follow that, but you
don't go into deep explanation
of the rays there.
>>ROY: No, not in this book.
>>REGINA: No.
But it's enough that you get
a glimpse into the deeper
underpinnings or workings
of that person's being
and how it's expressing
himself in the world.
OK, well I think we
should probably just
launch right in then, OK?
So the first one we're going
to start with is Donald Trump.
And this was written well
before he was president.
>>ROY: Yes, many years before.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So let's go into that,
because I think it matters.
And I'm going to tell
you that I called
upon other systems
of calibration
independently to also
look at Donald Trump
in particular to
see if there was
an overlay, if that system
indicated the same features
and levels of
consciousness awareness.
And everything really
totally validated each other.
So I just wanted to
do that for myself.
So with that said, let's
go into Donald Trump.
>>ROY: OK.
So you want me to talk about it?
>>REGINA: Mhm, you
can talk about it.
>>ROY: OK.
The first thing,
I was very upset
when the election go
on in the United States
because Mr. Trump, he
is a young initiate.
So he is only 1.2.
So it's a young soul.
And when you are a young
soul, you want to experiment,
but you are not able to see
the positive action of the rays
on you.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
So if I'm understanding,
as young souls,
you're more experiencing the
negative aspect of the rays.
>>ROY: Yeah, you are
almost a victim of the ray.
Almost.
We don't have to panic,
but you have to be--
more you are able
to play with the ray
and to go to the
positive aspect.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Well, that makes sense.
>>ROY: And Mr. Trump has a
ray one in his physical body.
And it's very important--
>>REGINA: Will.
>>ROY: Will.
This is the will and power.
And it's important to
know it because if he
is a young initiate--
and when you are young,
you are focusing very
hard on your physical body.
So the ray one
influence is bringing
to the way he was thinking.
So he want to experiment
the will and power.
Just want to do
[SPEAKING FRENCH].
>>REGINA: What did you say?
>>ROY: [SPEAKING FRENCH].
What?
>>REGINA: Oh, parentheses.
>>ROY: Yeah, parentheses.
Because--
>>REGINA: This is all
parenthetical, OK.
>>ROY: Your show, "Open
Minds," is very interesting,
because with the
first initiation,
it's the open heart.
And after, it's
open mind, because--
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>ROY: Because you begin--
between the one and two
initiation--
you begin the
mental polarization.
And it's the open
mind to the universe.
Do you understand?
So for me, yes, I think
that your audience
it's maybe more than one
initiation it already did.
>>REGINA: Yes, I think so.
Yes, I would agree with that.
>>ROY: Yeah.
And the people who
live here, the majority
has not done their
first initiation.
>>REGINA: The
majority of Americans
have not reached the
first level of initiation.
>>ROY: Yeah.
But it's all over the world.
>>REGINA: Yes, I understand.
>>ROY: The humanities prepare
to do their first initiation.
And American people, the
majority has not do this.
>>REGINA: Has not
done this, yes.
>>ROY: And they have
some lessons to learn
about love and about the power.
Because each country
has rays to influence
the energy in the country.
>>REGINA: So what is the US ray?
>>ROY: Six.
Idealist--
>>REGINA: Idealism.
>>ROY: And devotion.
And for the ray six
personality, so it's--
how can I say?
When you are young,
it's black or white.
>>REGINA: Very much true here.
>>ROY: Yeah.
The majority of
people are influenced
by the energy of the country.
So they are great idealists.
>>REGINA: Idealism.
>>ROY: You have good English.
And they have to lose some
illusion about themselves.
>>REGINA: It becomes so complex.
You may have a soul that
actually is showing itself
through these means
and calibration to you
or others as a certain level,
but then becoming caught up
in world affairs, and
agendas, and making deals,
and all of this seems
to indicate they
might be something different.
You see what I'm saying?
>>ROY: Yes.
Mhm, because the
rays are different
and the influence of
the rays are different.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>ROY: The difference between
Obama and Madame Clinton--
they have the same
initiation level,
but he have a seven-ray
soul and is the perfection--
order.
He wants to make
order in the country.
Because with this
level of initiation,
the soul has an
influence on him.
The same thing for Mrs.
Clinton, but she has a ray two.
It's loving compassion.
And she has a ray six
in her astral body,
and she is a woman.
And when we are a
woman, we are more
influenced by our astral body.
>>REGINA: And that one can go
into some negative aspects.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So each of these--
I think this is a
good part to mention.
Regardless of one's overall
number that we're looking at,
the 2.3 or whatever,
that these rays
are impacting us either
positively or negatively
at any given time.
We may have four of the
different aspects positive,
but two negative that we
haven't learned to contend with.
And that could be the
influence we're actually
seeing in that person.
>>ROY: Yes.
And you know when you pass
your second initiation,
there is an arrogance.
>>REGINA: After your
second initiation
there's an arrogance?
>>ROY: Yeah.
At this time, you
know that-- you
see you have a larger vision
than the people in general.
And you are sure that
you can do better
for them, for the people.
And I think that Madame Clinton
has this illusion in her.
Not necessarily Obama.
>>REGINA: I see.
OK.
He was more pragmatic
in his view.
>>ROY: More pragmatic, yes.
>>REGINA: Let's look at
one final political figure,
and that's Mikhail Gorbachev.
That was interesting.
Please tell us about him.
We all know what happened
under his watch--
perestroika, the
world that we knew
before the Iron Curtain
came down, so to speak,
and the Soviet Union.
And that was under
Mikhail Gorbachev's watch.
So let's talk about his
level of initiation.
>>ROY: I was very
surprised when I
know his level initiation, 3.2.
>>REGINA: 3.2
>>ROY: So he is a
very interesting man.
And he was very aware of
the suffering of the people.
And it's his level of
initiation that give it to him.
And he was very
tuned with his soul.
>>REGINA: Attuned with his soul.
>>ROY: Attuned with his soul.
When you meet a man who
has this initiation--
>>REGINA: Initiation
level of 3.2.
>>ROY: You know that
now he is ready to work
behind the scenes.
Because now he don't
want to be in front
because he wants to help
humanity in the other way.
And Gorbachev did
the most he can
with what he have
to deal in Russie.
And I think he did a lot of
things for his people there.
And what helped him,
that he has a ray--
the ray of his soul is a three.
So it's adaptability
and active intelligence.
So he is a very
good diplomatic man.
So he can see many ways
of the same situation.
>>REGINA: Many sides
>>ROY: Sorry.
Sides of the same situation.
And he can see what he
can do for amelioration--
[SPEAKING FRENCH]
>>DI SARIO: To ameliorate.
>>ROY: To ameliorate
the situation.
>>REGINA: To ameliorate
the situation, gotcha.
>>ROY: He is very a
person of great heart.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Yes, I mean, I was surprised--
not shocked, but a little
surprised, considering what's
going on right now.
So thank you for that.
One of the people
that actually had
a fairly high level of
initiation here in the book
was Helena Blavatsky.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And she was, of
course, an occultist
of the day in the '20s
and '30s in America.
And she was from Russia
initially, right?
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And she understood,
certainly, occult concepts,
the hidden realities of
life, on a very deep level.
But even so, I was
surprised that she
calibrated that high-- one of
the higher ones in the book.
>>ROY: But if-- do you
already read her life?
>>REGINA: Her life story?
I've never read her life--
I know I should have.
I've only read-- I mean, the--
yeah.
>>ROY: It's a very
passionate life.
And you realize when
you read his life
that she did a lot of things.
And she always wanted to be the
server, to serve the master.
She met master when she
went to the Himalayas.
>>REGINA: To the Himalayas,
she met with the master.
>>ROY: Yes.
And his master was
El Morya Khan and is
the master of the first ray.
>>REGINA: The master of
the first three rays?
>>ROY: Yes, El Morya Khan..
So she is a part of his ashram.
So she have the
will and the power
to do what the
master want to do.
She has to have this
level of initiation
to do what she did because
it was very hard at that time
to go through the
unconscious of the people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes, the unconsciousness
of the people.
>>ROY: And she worked
with Djwhal Khul, too.
She was the first
with Djwhal Khul
work to transmit
to his teaching.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Worked as a scribe.
I call it as a scribe, but yes.
>>ROY: OK.
>>REGINA: So yes, and
so she did come out
at a very interesting
number, 4.5.
And she didn't have
a great understanding
for a lot of the higher
hidden concepts of the basis,
the nature of reality.
And the parts about her
work that I have read,
I have had respect for.
Now, politics
always gets into it.
That day was rife with politics.
It was a very interesting
time, the emergence
of all of these occultists
back in the teens,
'20s, and '30s in America.
So that said, she wasn't
necessarily the most popular.
Some people disliked her.
Very powerful, strong woman.
But nonetheless,
at the core, you're
saying there was this
high level of mastery.
Let's look at Deepak Chopra.
>>ROY: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Deepak Chopra,
which came in at a 2.3,
the same level we're
looking at in--
>>ROY: I thought he was higher.
When Djwhal Khul explained
to me why he is only a 2.3,
I understand.
So he has--
I like him very
much, Deepak Chopra.
But he has a certain
arrogance that because he
has work to do with the mass
of the people, and for me,
it's a kind of
sacrifice that he did,
because he wanted
to be understand.
>>REGINA: To be understood.
>>ROY: To be understood
by, and he wanted
to understand the people.
And when you are too high,
you have difficulty sometimes
to understand.
>>REGINA: Relate to the people.
>>REGINA: Relate.
Ah, relate.
It's good.
OK.
To the people.
And Deepak Chopra
did a very good job.
And for me, he help
a lot of people.
And we don't have to stuck
about his level of initiation
because his teaching
is very good
and he helps a lot of people.
And it's important for me.
>>REGINA: Yes, he came in at a
particular level of expression
to be able to be heard
and seen and have people
relate to him for what he had
to teach at that moment in time.
So he could just
as easily come back
in the next incarnation, when
humanity's level of initiation
has risen, and have a
completely different way
of showing himself.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Good.
OK.
And Carlos Castaneda,
I chose him.
>>ROY: Oh, gosh.
OK, I was surprised
because I'm not
comfortable with his teaching.
But he is 3.--
>>REGINA: 2.
>>ROY: 3.2.
DK, Djwhal Khul, said that he
would be probably more evolved
if he was not a white sorcerer?
>>REGINA: Mhm, a white magician.
>>ROY: White magician,
because he played too much
with this kind of energy.
And he liked to play
with this, and he
start to evolve in-- we
said in the vertical?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROY: Yes.
He'd always experiment
on the horizontal plane.
But he has a way to teach
that makes me uncomfortable.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
But then you probably
were speaking--
when he was telling you
this, you were saying, no,
[SPEAKING FRENCH].
>>ROY: No, no.
Yes.
>>REGINA: I'm sure you
were arguing with him.
OK.
So now L. Ron Hubbard--
>>ROY: Oh, yes.
>>ROY: The Scientology--
I've got to bring this one up.
>>ROY: I was so surprised, too.
>>REGINA: 3.7.
>>ROY: Yeah, it's so high.
No, I understand.
This man was, I think
in his past life,
was a very interesting person.
DK mentioned he will be probably
Leonardo da Vinci, I think?
>>REGINA: Leonardo da Vinci.
>>ROY: Yeah.
And in this life, he
has the great potential
to do a lot of things.
And he do a lot of things.
But for me, he's always on
the razor's edge on the side
of to be OK or not OK, to be--
>>REGINA: OK not OK in what way?
>>ROY: In what way, eh?
Sometimes I think he was a
little bit on the negative way.
And he manipulates people.
And I'm not sure--
I think he will--
he wants to do that in a
good way for the people.
But when you look with a step
back, I'm not sure he did.
>>REGINA: It said in the
book that he actually
regressed from what he came
in as within this lifetime.
>>ROY: I'm not sure.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I think that's
what it said in the book,
what Djwhal Khul
said, is that he--
I think by his death, he
had started regressing.
>>ROY: OK.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Maybe he didn't carry out the
intention in the full integrity
that his soul had intended.
Because when you looked at the
work from 40 years ago about
this self-empowering way
of viewing your life--
deconstructing and
reconstructing your life--
at the beginning, he
looked at it and thought,
well, that makes sense.
But it turned into a
cult kind of movement
with a different directive.
>>ROY: I agree.
>>REGINA: So maybe one of those
rays started impacting his ego
and need for power.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And maybe
that's what started
taking the original ideal
he came in with down
to where he regressed by his
death, something like that.
>>ROY: I agree, yes.
>>REGINA: That's kind
of how I took that.
So Michelangelo.
Michelangelo, he was a
high-level initiate, 3.8.
But what surprised
me about him--
not surprised me.
But what I find
interesting about that,
both he and Leonardo da Vinci--
which I think da Vinci was
a 3.2, they're both up there--
is that we need to understand
the times they lived in.
They were these
levels of initiation
in times that were darker
in understanding than what
we're swimming in today.
So actually, the differential
between the level
of consciousness among the
people and where they were
was quite a disparity.
They were way ahead
of their time-- well,
certainly they were very
high-level initiates
of their day.
>>ROY: For me, I think
it was very difficult
for them to live at that epoch?
>>REGINA: Yes, in that epoch.
>>ROY: And it was, I'm sure,
very difficult to be understood
by people.
It's not possible for
people to understand them.
And they have to live their
life [SPEAKING FRENCH].
>>DI SARIO: Even.
>>ROY: Even?
>>DI SARIO: No.
>>REGINA: In spite of.
>>DI SARIO: Regardless.
>>REGINA: Regardless, yes.
>>ROY: Regardless of what
people think about them.
And the soul push hard on them
to do what they have to do.
And they did beautiful things.
>>REGINA: Oh, magnificent.
>>ROY: Yes.
Spiritual things that
inspire us now again.
>>REGINA: Truly
inspired thought, yeah.
>>ROY: Because in
each epoch they
are initiate at that level.
And it's very
difficult for them.
It's a sacrifice for them.
Now people evolve
and there are more
evolved people on the planet.
Yes.
And at that time, often when you
are prepared to pass initiation
you did alone.
But now--
>>REGINA: There's more support.
Humanity can be more supportive.
>>ROY: Yes.
But now we can pass our
initiation in group.
So we are more support.
It's less difficult.
>>REGINA: Yes, and that's why
I just wanted to bring it up,
is we have to also
look at this as it
was bathed within the times,
the consciousness of the times.
OK, we have another one.
And this will get us to
kind of a final observation,
I noticed, in these numbers.
And this is Oprah Winfrey.
>>ROY: Yeah.
[CHUCKLES SOFTLY]
>>REGINA: And Oprah
came in at 1.2,
very similar to
Donald Trump and Bush.
>>ROY: OK.
I was surprised, too.
And he explained that
she did a lot of things--
young soul, when they
want to do a good thing,
they put all their
energy to do that.
And Oprah, she has a
very good motivation.
She wants to help people.
She has a ray six.
She is devoted--
>>REGINA: Idealistic?
>>ROY: Idealistic.
And she is devoted
to help people.
But she has a certain arrogance
that maybe cannot help her
to progress more in this life.
But the work she
do, will help her.
>>REGINA: Will help.
A lot of the mass
consciousness were
helped by even Dr. Phil
coming on and saying, well,
you have a part in this, too.
It's your own damn fault.
For people, instead of--
I think in that sense,
a lot of her guests
and so forth help
people climb out
of really base
victimhood up into taking
some self-responsibility.
So I think Oprah was a
big part of helping people
look at their lives and start
taking some responsibility
for their lives.
So in that sense, as
a pop star in America,
she served that, as you
say, that idealistic purpose
of trying to help
people in that way.
And what I wanted to add to
this was that I look through
at the various--
not every single chart,
but most of them.
And a lot of the people
in American culture
that are the quote, "popular
leaders of culture"--
movie stars, and
directors, and so forth--
all came in at the same level
as Trump and where Oprah is.
So Trump was actually--
we're being bathed in a
sea of propaganda that
supports these pop
figures, all of who
are young souls with not a
well-developed sense of purpose
yet, per se.
And so if that is what we're
living in-- that's what
our media is
projecting 24/7 to us--
is it a surprise that something
in our collective consciousness
would have elected a man that
matches that level of baseline
consciousness in America?
Right?
>>ROY: Mhm.
>>REGINA: OK.
Well, enough said about that.
OK, we'll move on.
>>ROY: But you know
that they are more
evolved than the population.
The population is less
than 1, so Trump--
>>REGINA: So it's
still a step up.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's still
a step up en masse.
Now, Bill Gates is interesting.
Because a lot of people
have a lot of thoughts about
Bill Gates.
Some people think he's
part of the evil cabal
and other people think,
well, he offered a good thing
to the planet.
And so he comes out at a 3.1.
What was your thought on
it, your perception when
he told you this?
Did you argue with DK on it?
>>ROY: Yes, I argued,
because generally the money
goes with young souls.
The young soul wants to
experiment the physical plan,
and they need money
to do that, OK?
And Bill Gates has
a lot of money.
And I thought that he
was maybe 1.5 maximum.
And when the DK
said, hey, it's 3.1,
I say, oh no, it's impossible.
And he said, look.
And he explained to me what
is the purpose of his life,
of Bill Gates, is to
help and to help people
not only on the physical plan.
Plan?
>>REGINA: Plane.
>>ROY: But he wants--
plane.
Sorry.
Thank you.
And is to help them to
grow in a different way.
They want responsible--
>>REGINA: To evolve
in a different way.
>>ROY: And they
help them, but they
want them to be
more responsible,
to be assume their life.
It doesn't want just gave
money and do what you want.
They help, they teach.
>>REGINA: Give people tools.
>>ROY: Yes.
Ah, good.
Yes.
>>REGINA: To educate themselves.
So he brought those
tools out to the planet.
>>ROY: Because he
has an open mind.
>>REGINA: He has an open
mind and brought these tools
to the planet to be able to
have empowerment to access
information on their own.
So it did make sense.
And that's really-- because
we could go on and on.
But I just wanted to
get a little flavor
so people that we all
know in this country
could see this
principle in action.
And so we don't have any more
people we need to look at.
I think that's a
good one to close on.
The next book coming, what is
it you're going to be featuring?
>>ROY: OK, we're going to
be featuring 100 initiates,
but we're going to explain
what is initiation, too,
at the end of the book.
>>REGINA: OK, it will be more
explained than in this book.
>>ROY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
I found it fascinating.
We were going through
it like, [GASPS] can
you believe that one?
[LAUGHS] And it
kind of surprises.
I mean, some of it
wasn't surprising
if I really followed someone's
life or work more closely.
But by and large, there are
surprises galore in here.
And it really helps us take
judgment out of things,
too, to look at, this is a young
soul who's working off now,
as you say, the negative
aspect of the rays,
trying to overcome those denser
influences so they can go more
up into the sublime and
refined aspects of what's
possible on that ray.
And then it makes sense.
Because we're all on some aspect
of that journey ourselves.
>>ROY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's not just to
poke fun at people.
[LAUGHTER]
So I want to thank you so much.
And I have to say, I think
you did a beautiful job.
And thank you so much,
Josee, for helping
with the translation of this
and coming along today, as well.
>>ROY: Thank you very much.
>>REGINA: You're welcome.
I found this
absolutely fascinating
and I hope you have, too.
Again, the title of
the book is "Circle
of Initiates," which you can
find at major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."